>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just like the forms
module, when you're moving two Reactive
forms you need to import
the Reactive forms' module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So pretty easy,
if you have Angular forms you just go in,
you import it.
With that said is you will need to
also add it to your imports in your
Angie module but, I think we're pretty
solid on how to solve that dependency.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And,
this is what a FormGroup looks like.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, form = new
FormGroup, so form could be anything.
And you're simply saying
create this new FormGroup and
I'm sending you an object that represents
the form that I want to create.
And so here's a group that
essentially represents this form, and
then I wanna have the FormControl that is
of name first and a FormControl of last.
So you can imagine,
like first name last name, so
pretty much every field gets one of these.
And then from here you can add in
the validators and some different things.
So if you have more than one that
kinda goes into an array, and
you can kinda stack it up.
And do some pretty sophisticated things
in the JavaScript context that's not
available from just the template base,
working with it from the template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so now, remember,
we talked about the FormGroup directive,
where we created the form now we
just attach it here, FormGroup.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So we define the
FormGroup object and then we hook it to
the form using the FormGroup directive
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then from there, we have access to
the form in a programmatic context.
So, for instance,
let's start with onSubmit.
And so we already have without having to
send it back, we actually have access
to the value of the entire form,
right here.
So we just say this.form.value,
and here it is.
Now at the same time,
we can actually set the value.
So this.form.setValue and we can set in
an object, so, pretty straight forward.
What we can also do is we
can get a single element
out of the FormGroup.
So in this case, this is kind of
an interesting thing, is we have a getter,
we're calling it first, and from here
we're just returning this.form.get first.
So you can see here that,
first over here is the key in which
we're using to return that form element.
But, because we have first,
or do I do this?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's see here,
I don't think this got
wired up in my slides.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah, it did not, but
what you can do, is in your template,
you can now actually go and
display first.value,
cuz you're exposing the form
control via a getter.
And so, I'll show
that maybe when we get into
the demonstration what that looks like.
So the point is,
form group contains FormControls, and
we're just wiring it up to the form.
And from there,
we can start to manipulate and
interact with the form in a reactive
way from a programmatic context.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
let's expand this a bit, and
this is going to be a little bit more
to where we are in terms of the login.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
we'll do this with FormBuilder.
So the only difference is,
is that form builder just kind of
puts everything together, but
the syntax is pretty much the same.
So we are going to define a FormGroup,
in this case, it's subscriber,
and we are injecting
FormBuilder right here.
So this is kind of the start,
so previously we defined
our FormGroup,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Explicitly,
so form = new FormGroup, in this case,
we are going to use FormBuilder to do
this and so you'll see, it's very close.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And from here, we're
just saying this.subscriber = this.fb for
FormBuilder.group and you're passing in
essentially the same exact thing, name.
We'll give it an initial value of nothing,
empty strings, and we want to make
each of these fields required.
And so, in our JavaScript we're saying
this is how we want this thing to work.
And then what you do, is you go in and
you just have to wide up.
So we're gonna start with FormGroup, so
using the FormGroup directive
we attach it to subscriber.
And then to attach the FormControl,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
here we are, right over here,
formControlName.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: The FormGroup
looks like a property on a form,
whereas a formControlName is like
an attribute, which is not bound?
I mean, it's not following any syntax,
I mean,
shouldn't it be a property or
should it be, what is it?
I mean it's not a standard.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, how this works,
and this is one of the things we're gonna
file under you either know it,
or you kind of don't.
It's just something that's
related with this kind of like,
you just have to it this way.
You can see in this case name and
email, that when this get generated,
it becomes essentially the key.
So if you're doing template driven forms,
you actually have to
have a name property on there,
it's how it's just matching it up.
And so, by binding this top level
FormGroup, it goes through and
it matches, the actual key,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: To
the foformControlName.
But essentially what it's doing,
it's matching in a way,
like the name attribute to it.
But, the reason why you
are not having to bind
this,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is because the whole
entire thing, is already bound to this.
>> Speaker 2: Then why don't we just write
name = name instead of formControlName
because formControlName is not even
a standard input attribute for input?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I mean so
that is a question I'd probably
have to service to the team.
I mean,
obviously they have some reasons for that.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, sure.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But I think,
if I were to make a guess that
when we look at this,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Does anybody,
like if you didn't know
anything about anything.
So if we just took this slide and
we walked downstairs on the street,
and we said, what do you think this is?
It's like well, it's probably
the name of some FormControl.
And I'd say bingo, that's it.
So if anything, I think they did
this because it's self-documenting.
It's saying like this is, like we
are attaching a FormControl to this.
And so,
I mean there is always a balance of like,
do we do something conventional or
do we do something that self-documenting?
I think formControlName,
by using that name convention,
it's a little bit more intuitive of
what's actually happening in the form.
But, I mean that's a valid question.
I think even one of the hardship of
programming is what do you name things?
Managing state or
cash I believe in naming things.
So there's something that's
called along those lines.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
formGroup, formControlName.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And now,
we back this up little quick.
So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: When we want to
actually do something with this or
submit it, how does that work?
So we know that with FormGroup,
we have value invalid.
Now, so we can call subscribe,
we can pass in the subscriber,
so you could reference it from
within the subscribe method.
But,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What we're doing
here is a little bit of
trickery with TypeScript,
is we're destructuring the parameter.
We're saying, take this object and
create a two new properties,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: A value, and
valid, and put them in here.
So what we're doing is we're taking
this object and we're breaking it out
into two essentially parameters,
value and valid.
And is pulling them up off
of the subscriber object.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I won't get too much
in the weeds on this, because I very easy
could have just said subscriber, passed it
in, and then just pulled it off of that.
This is just a really convenient
way using TypeScript,
to say take this object and
pull off just the parameters I want.
And from here, we're just logging it out.
So we're just saying, value, or valid.
So we can do whatever we want
if we were to extend this, but
the next thing is like, well, how do you
reset the form, like what do you do?
Well, this .subscriber.reset,
then you just set the properties you want.
So now we're able to control
this programmatically instead of
from the template.
So, we could do subscriber.value,
subscriber.valid and get those.
As well as we can call dot reset and
different things on the FormGroup.
One thing I wanna point out here is that,
and
I'll even do this,
this may explode but we'll see.
Occasionally, I try to get brave and
I try to actually augment the code in
my slides and it never goes well like,
Keynote is a horrible ID
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Don't judge me.
No.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
this is just gonna bother me too.
All right, I think I did.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What you
could do is not pass this in,
and we have,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And we could do this.
I mean cuz it's in the class,
it's there, but
based on our conversation earlier,
what is the problem with this method?
>> Speaker 2: State-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There's hidden state.
>> Speaker 2: Hidden state, yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
we could call this 1,000 times and
never know what's gonna happen
without knowing the state
of the value and
the validity of the FormGroup.
So there are gonna be cases where
you're going to have to reference
internal properties and methods.
But, just like you have container
components, presentational components,
is try to isolate as much as possible
your methods so they are pure.
Meaning there are no side effects.
And so in this case, when this gets
called whatever we're doing it's actually
doing something that effect
outside of the thing.
In this case if we put it back,
I know that
if I call this 1,000 times and I pass in
the same object 1,000 times, I'm going to
get the same result every single time.
So this is called
referential transparency.
And so we know now that if I pass this
in because there's no hidden state,
it's a pure method,
I'm always going to get the same result.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so this is one
of the ways you reduce complexity is
by reducing state.
And so, as much as possible,
I tried to do these pure functions that
there's no side effects, no hidden state.
Everything that I need gets
passed in via perimeter.
Which means,
I can now also pick this up and
move it into utility class
which is I've done this before,
where I write a bunch of small functions
and I'm like, I knew this somewhere else.
I just pick it up and move it.
And because I'm not referencing
anything else outside of those methods,
it doesn't matter.
I just keep passing what I need in,
and getting what I need out.
So this is, again, reducing state,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In code really,
reduces complexity.